README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/veilm/veilm.github.io/refs/heads/master/static/hinata.png" width="250">
</p>

<p align="center">
agentic AI pair programming in your terminal. except minimalist, modular, extensible
</p>

# quick tour
### [`hnt-llm`](./llm/)
basic LLM API in/out. significantly faster startup than openai-python
```
$ export OPENROUTER_API_KEY=...
$ echo "hello! ❄️" | hnt-llm --model openrouter/anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet
Hi there! Nice snowflake emoji! How are you today? ☺️
```

### [`hnt-chat`](./chat/)
chat history management using plaintext files and conversation directories
```
$ conversation=$(hnt-chat new)
$ echo "please write a poem about the user's given theme" | hnt-chat add system
$ echo "iteration" | hnt-chat add user

$ ls $conversation
1747512247695244498-system.md
1747512250714528664-user.md

$ hnt-chat generate --write --model openrouter/deepseek/deepseek-chat-v3-0324:free
**Iteration**  

Again, the brushstroke on the page,  
A line retraced, a word replayed.
[...]
```

### [`hnt-edit`](./edit)
simple hnt-chat wrapper for editing source code or other plaintext files

```
$ export DEEPSEEK_API_KEY=...

$ hnt-edit \
	-m "please enable debugging in the config" \
	--model "deepseek/deepseek-chat" \
	$(fd -g "*.h")
I'll enable debugging by changing the DEBUG flag from 0 to 1 in util.h. Here's the edit:
[...]

$ git diff
diff --git a/src/util.h b/src/util.h
index badefee..5eb3e0d 100644
--- a/src/util.h
+++ b/src/util.h
@@ -1,6 +1,6 @@
 #pragma once
 
-#define DEBUG 0
+#define DEBUG 1
 
 #define debug(fmt, ...) \
 	do { if (DEBUG) fprintf(stderr, "%-20s " fmt, \
```

in my (inevitably biased) experience, the [included system
prompt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/veilm/hinata/refs/heads/main/edit/prompts/main-file_edit.md)'s
editing performance is higher than Aider's for my usual infra and web use cases,
as of Apr 2025

# build everything
```
git clone https://github.com/veilm/hinata
cd hinata
./build
```

- dependencies (you likely already have them): C libjasson and libcurl
- optional dependencies: uv (pygments syntax highlighting)

# full architecture
- [`hnt-llm`](./llm/README.md): simple, performant text backend. pipe text input
in, receive LLM text response out
- [`hnt-chat`](./chat/README.md): wrapper around `hnt-llm` for managing
conversations and message history, using simple conv directories and message
markdown files
- [`llm-pack`](./edit/llm-pack/README.md): take source code filenames as CLI
args. write LLM packed prompt to stdout
- [`hnt-apply`](./edit/README.md): take LLM output including TARGET/REPLACE
blocks as stdin. make edits to those files on the LLM's behalf
- [`hlmd-st`](./fmt/highlight/README.md): take LLM markdown output, including
code blocks as stdin. write syntax highlighted ver to stdout
- [`hnt-edit`](./edit/README.md): (very low-budget) aider clone. wrapper that
uses `llm-pack` to format source code. sends it along with user instructions to
`hnt-chat`. optionally displays it using `hlmd-st`/custom. then uses `hnt-apply`
to parse the LLM's desired edits
- [`hnt-web`](./web/README.md): simple 80/20 web app wrapping hnt-chat.
sufficient for my own casual usage and mobile/{filesystem storage} requirement
- [`headlesh`](./agent/headlesh/README.md): CLI headless shell manager. create
shell sessions and easily read/write to them
- [`hnt-agent`](./agent/): wrapper around `headlesh` for allowing an LLM to use
a shell and receive output, in a feedback loop

# philosophy

**Goal: unequivocally mog yacine's setup**

- Have something like Aider / Claude code / codex but ~~impossible to use~~
extensible
- As much as possible, unify your environment so that LLMs and humans can use
the same tools in the same ways: simple CLI programs that wrap each other
- Integrate other ideas as they're leaked by Pliny/Tibor/etc.
- Ideally LLM Chat is simple to layer on top as a wrapper over composable
features (e.g. memory)
- Maintain benchmarks on included prompts and scaffolding on private code (rvm,
iqd, etc.) for reference and for maliciously farming and baiting engagement on X
- Be reasonable in the design of backends. like Aider not like Open WebUI

## credit
other projects used for inspiration:
- [Aider](https://aider.chat/)
- [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com/)
- [openai-python](https://github.com/openai/openai-python)
- [simonw/llm](https://github.com/simonw/llm)
- [Streamdown](https://github.com/day50-dev/Streamdown)

Commit message:

docs: add bugs and support section to README
committed by hnt-agent via util/commit

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/veilm/veilm.github.io/refs/heads/master/static/hinata.png" width="250">
</p>

<p align="center">
agentic AI pair programming in your terminal. except minimalist, modular, extensible
</p>

# quick tour
### [`hnt-llm`](./llm/)
basic LLM API in/out. significantly faster startup than openai-python
```
$ export OPENROUTER_API_KEY=...
$ echo "hello! ❄️" | hnt-llm --model openrouter/anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet
Hi there! Nice snowflake emoji! How are you today? ☺️
```

### [`hnt-chat`](./chat/)
chat history management using plaintext files and conversation directories
```
$ conversation=$(hnt-chat new)
$ echo "please write a poem about the user's given theme" | hnt-chat add system
$ echo "iteration" | hnt-chat add user

$ ls $conversation
1747512247695244498-system.md
1747512250714528664-user.md

$ hnt-chat generate --write --model openrouter/deepseek/deepseek-chat-v3-0324:free
**Iteration**  

Again, the brushstroke on the page,  
A line retraced, a word replayed.
[...]
```

### [`hnt-edit`](./edit)
simple hnt-chat wrapper for editing source code or other plaintext files

```
$ export DEEPSEEK_API_KEY=...

$ hnt-edit \
	-m "please enable debugging in the config" \
	--model "deepseek/deepseek-chat" \
	$(fd -g "*.h")
I'll enable debugging by changing the DEBUG flag from 0 to 1 in util.h. Here's the edit:
[...]

$ git diff
diff --git a/src/util.h b/src/util.h
index badefee..5eb3e0d 100644
--- a/src/util.h
+++ b/src/util.h
@@ -1,6 +1,6 @@
 #pragma once
 
-#define DEBUG 0
+#define DEBUG 1
 
 #define debug(fmt, ...) \
 	do { if (DEBUG) fprintf(stderr, "%-20s " fmt, \
```

in my (inevitably biased) experience, the [included system
prompt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/veilm/hinata/refs/heads/main/edit/prompts/main-file_edit.md)'s
editing performance is higher than Aider's for my usual infra and web use cases,
as of Apr 2025

# build everything
```
git clone https://github.com/veilm/hinata
cd hinata
./build
```

- dependencies (you likely already have them): C libjasson and libcurl
- optional dependencies: uv (pygments syntax highlighting)

# full architecture
- [`hnt-llm`](./llm/README.md): simple, performant text backend. pipe text input
in, receive LLM text response out
- [`hnt-chat`](./chat/README.md): wrapper around `hnt-llm` for managing
conversations and message history, using simple conv directories and message
markdown files
- [`llm-pack`](./edit/llm-pack/README.md): take source code filenames as CLI
args. write LLM packed prompt to stdout
- [`hnt-apply`](./edit/README.md): take LLM output including TARGET/REPLACE
blocks as stdin. make edits to those files on the LLM's behalf
- [`hlmd-st`](./fmt/highlight/README.md): take LLM markdown output, including
code blocks as stdin. write syntax highlighted ver to stdout
- [`hnt-edit`](./edit/README.md): (very low-budget) aider clone. wrapper that
uses `llm-pack` to format source code. sends it along with user instructions to
`hnt-chat`. optionally displays it using `hlmd-st`/custom. then uses `hnt-apply`
to parse the LLM's desired edits
- [`hnt-web`](./web/README.md): simple 80/20 web app wrapping hnt-chat.
sufficient for my own casual usage and mobile/{filesystem storage} requirement
- [`headlesh`](./agent/headlesh/README.md): CLI headless shell manager. create
shell sessions and easily read/write to them
- [`hnt-agent`](./agent/): wrapper around `headlesh` for allowing an LLM to use
a shell and receive output, in a feedback loop

# bugs / support
feel free to @ me on X or make a GitHub issue, for literally any reason

you don't need to read any documentation or even try installing. I'd be happy to
answer any possible questions

# philosophy

**Goal: unequivocally mog yacine's setup**

- Have something like Aider / Claude code / codex but ~~impossible to use~~
extensible
- As much as possible, unify your environment so that LLMs and humans can use
the same tools in the same ways: simple CLI programs that wrap each other
- Integrate other ideas as they're leaked by Pliny/Tibor/etc.
- Ideally LLM Chat is simple to layer on top as a wrapper over composable
features (e.g. memory)
- Maintain benchmarks on included prompts and scaffolding on private code (rvm,
iqd, etc.) for reference and for maliciously farming and baiting engagement on X
- Be reasonable in the design of backends. like Aider not like Open WebUI

## credit
other projects used for inspiration:
- [Aider](https://aider.chat/)
- [Cursor](https://www.cursor.com/)
- [openai-python](https://github.com/openai/openai-python)
- [simonw/llm](https://github.com/simonw/llm)
- [Streamdown](https://github.com/day50-dev/Streamdown)
