edit/llm-pack/README.md, before:

wow! Unix-abiding code packaging into a prompt

# Basic usage
```sh
git clone https://github.com/michaelskyba/hinata
cd hinata/edit/llm-pack

# here's what we currently have in ./test-dir
$ tree ./test-dir
test-dir
├── dir1
│   └── file1.txt
├── god.txt
├── we_hate_js.js
└── year.txt

2 directories, 4 files

# let's pack all files... except for that stupid JS one..
# compile
$ ./build

# other utils like find or fd already have pattern matching. let's [E]xclude JS
$ fd . --type f -E "*.js" test-dir
test-dir/dir1/file1.txt
test-dir/god.txt
test-dir/year.txt

# wow imagine being so innovative that you decide to reimplement everything in fd
# in your LLM packing tool. that's not me so we'll continue using fd but spread
# its output as args to llm-pack, leveraging a subshell
$ llm-pack $(fd . --type f -E "*.js" test-dir)
`‎``
<file_paths>
dir1/file1.txt
god.txt
year.txt
</file_paths>

<dir1/file1.txt>
this is file1
</dir1/file1.txt>

<god.txt>
nvda --> EL
</god.txt>

<year.txt>
2027
</year.txt>
`‎``
```

simple as. Is this really worth 15k GitHub stars?

# non-default options
- `-n`: [n]o code fences
- `-p`: don't pack code. just print the absolute shared root [p]ath that would have been used

# philosophy
- an initial file_paths list tells the LLM what to expect
- XML tags are unambiguous and generally unlikely to clash with content within the file
- it's easier to distinguish files with less of a shared directory path, so we print file paths relative to their closest shared root

Commit message:

llm-pack: sort by paths option

edit/llm-pack/README.md, after:

wow! Unix-abiding code packaging into a prompt

# Basic usage
```sh
git clone https://github.com/michaelskyba/hinata
cd hinata/edit/llm-pack

# here's what we currently have in ./test-dir
$ tree ./test-dir
test-dir
├── dir1
│   └── file1.txt
├── god.txt
├── we_hate_js.js
└── year.txt

2 directories, 4 files

# let's pack all files... except for that stupid JS one..
# compile
$ ./build

# other utils like find or fd already have pattern matching. let's [E]xclude JS
$ fd . --type f -E "*.js" test-dir
test-dir/dir1/file1.txt
test-dir/god.txt
test-dir/year.txt

# wow imagine being so innovative that you decide to reimplement everything in fd
# in your LLM packing tool. that's not me so we'll continue using fd but spread
# its output as args to llm-pack, leveraging a subshell
$ llm-pack $(fd . --type f -E "*.js" test-dir)
`‎``
<file_paths>
dir1/file1.txt
god.txt
year.txt
</file_paths>

<dir1/file1.txt>
this is file1
</dir1/file1.txt>

<god.txt>
nvda --> EL
</god.txt>

<year.txt>
2027
</year.txt>
`‎``
```

simple as. Is this really worth 15k GitHub stars?

# non-default options
- `-n`: [n]o code fences
- `-p`: don't pack code. just print the absolute shared root [p]ath that would have been used
- `-s`: [s]ort the input files alphabetically by their absolute paths before processing. can help with LLM comprehension, compared to a random order

# philosophy
- an initial file_paths list tells the LLM what to expect
- XML tags are unambiguous and generally unlikely to clash with content within the file
- it's easier to distinguish files with less of a shared directory path, so we print file paths relative to their closest shared root
